---
title: Notes on some useful VMD tips
date: 2019-08-18
excerpt: "In this note, I will accumulate some VMD tips I find useful. The main purpose of this note is for self convenience but I hope it can be useful for anyone who wander on this page"
categories:
  - research
tags:
  - molecular simulation
disableKatex: true
---

In this note, I will accumulate some VMD tips I find useful. The main purpose of this note is for self convenience but I hope it can be useful for anyone who wander on this page

#### How to generate VMD `.psf` file from LAMMPS data file

In VMD console, use command `cd` to navigate to the directory where the LAMMPS data file is located. Then, run the following command

```tcl
topo readlammpsdata your_data_file bond
animate write psf your_psf_file
```

If the command runs successfully, then you should find your `.psf` file generated in the directory. To use the `.psf` file, first load the generated `.psf` file and then load the trajectory file. You should find yourself be able to use the functionalities such as drawing method, coloring method, etc ...

#### Fix certain molecular in the camera when view the trajectory file

Sometimes, we want to view certain molecular through the trajectory. However, the targeted molecular may diffuse in the simulation box, making the visualization difficult. We want to make the camera focus on the interested molecular. Here is a method to do this. 

In `Extension-Analysis-RMSD Visualizer Tool`, use molecular you want to focus on as `Atom Selection`. Then run `ALIGN`. You can watch the trajectory as the molecular you select in the center of the camera now.

#### Rendering for publication quality image

To render publication quality image, follow the good practices below

- Load molecular into VMD with your preferred representation
- For each representation, select a material that is fairly diffuse such as the `Diffuse` material, or the AO-optimized `AOShiny`, `AOChalky`, or `AOEdgy` materials provided in VMD.
- Enable ambient occlusion lighting in the Display Settings window as described above.
- Set the `AO Ambient` factor to 1.0, and the `AO Direct` factor to 0.8 as an initial starting point.
- Render the scene using `File - Render - Tachyon` or `TachyonInternal`, or use the `render` command to do the same.
- Due to the increased computational complexity of rendering the molecule with ambient occlusion lighting, it's highly recommended to run VMD and Tachyon on a multi-processor or multi-core workstation for best performance.

#### References
* http://bionano.physics.illinois.edu/sites/default/files/tachyonTutorial.pdf
* https://ourphysics.org/wiki/index.php/How_to_make_images_for_publication_using_VMD
